All right.
So now that we have our previous page and next page computed properties, we can use them in our template
to dynamically render our previous and next page buttons as needed.
So I'm going to scroll up to my template for the job listings component and below this P tag, this
paragraph tag, I'm going to add another div.
This is going to be a box that's going to show up on the right side of the screen right after all of
my job listings.
And immediately, let me add some classes here.
I'm going to make this a Flexbox.
I'm going to vertically align the children of the Flexbox using the items center property.
And then I'm also going to use justify a center that's going to apply the excess attribute, justify
common center basic.
And it's going to center these items vertically and horizontally within the box that's going to be on
the right hand side of this of Flexbox.
All right.
And in this div, I'm going to add two router link components.
One is going to be for my previous page and one is going to be for my next page.
So I'm going to create a router link here.
Remember, that is a component that Vue router gives to us that allows us to navigate across our view
app without forcing a page refresh so the app doesn't reload.
So this one is going to have the text previous and the other one is going to have the text of next.
And of course, if we were to leave this in right now, they would both render at all times.
So that's not good.
We need to conditionally render them if they're available, and we also need to specify where they're
actually going to lead the user to.
All right.
So for the very first one, what I'm going to do is use my VFR directive.
I only want to conditionally render this router link if there is a previous page to go to.
Well, the previous page computed property will either give me a number or the value undefined.
So the way it actually works in JavaScript is undefined is a false value, which means it is as good
as false in a if statement, context and any number in JavaScript is truthful.
I think it might even be.
Perhaps zero is false.
Yeah, I'm not really sure.
But any positive number one, two, three, four is truth.
So it is as good as true in an if statement context.
And this previous page computed property will only return numbers that are one and above.
So in other words, if I have one, two, three or four, any kind of numeric value and I provide it
to a VRF, it is going to evaluate to true.
It's going to evaluate to.
Yes, go ahead and render this in comparison.
If my previous page computed property returns undefined, that's going to evaluate to false and thus
this router length will not render because the VRF directive evaluates the false.
So in other words, just to reiterate a value like one, two, three, four, five is as good as true
right here.
JavaScript interprets those values as truth.
All right, so what I'm going to do is provide a reference to my previous page computed property.
If that gives me undefined, I'm not going to render this.
If it gives me any valid number or integer, I am going to render this.
So for router link below, I'm going to apply the exact same logic with my VRF directive, except I'm
going to connect this conditionally to whatever my next page computed.
Property returns below.
If next page gives me undefined, I will not render that button without link to navigate the user to
the next page.
And if next page gives me a number instead, a number is true.
Three.
So this will add value to true.
So Vue will render this router link.
Okay.
So now we have the text, we have the conditional render, but we obviously have to tell the router
like where to go to the previous page versus the next page.
Right.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to provide my two prop and to my two prop I want to provide
a JavaScript object because that is a complex value that is beyond a string.
We also need to use our V bind syntax so the colon in front of the two in order to be able to provide
a JavaScript object and have you understand that it is an object and not a string.
So we're going to use a syntax that we explored earlier in regards to View Router.
One way that we can specify a route to go to is not by actually providing the URL, but by providing
the name that we set up in our router file.
So as a reminder, if I go to router index that yes, remember we gave every route a name and we want
to take the user to this route slash job slash results, which has the name of job results.
It's going to be the exact same route each time.
The only difference is the actual query param, which will tell the component which set of jobs to show.
Right?
So here I'm going to specify that the name of the route that I want this button to go to or this router
link is going to be job results and this has to match the exact same name I provided in the router index.
That's useful.
So this is not enough because this will go to slash job slash results.
I need to provide an additional query param and I can do that by providing the query key right here
and making that equal to a JavaScript object.
And in this object I provide whatever query params I want and Vue will automatically add them to the
URL and set up all the.
Proper concatenation and symbols and all that stuff automatically for me.
So of course, this component is dependent on a query property, a query param called page.
So I have to use page right here.
And what is going to be the value that I want to provide for that query?
Param It's going to be whatever my previous page is.
So for example, if we are on page number two, then my previous page will be one.
So if I have one, then this vehicle will evaluate to true and I will navigate the user to slash job
slash results with a page query param equal to one.
Once that happens, this component will detect that that query has changed that page property.
So it's going to reevaluate.
Display jobs is also going to re-evaluate and give me a different set of ten jobs using the logic that
we previously defined.
All right.
So for my second matter link, I want the exact same logic.
So right here, I'm going to bind to the two prop.
I'm going to provide a JavaScript object and double quotes.
I still want to go to the same root, so job results is still my root.
Right?
However, I'm going to customize the query params, so I'm going to provide an object to query params.
And of course here we still need to provide the page property, but instead of going to the previous
page, I want to go to the next page.
So imagine, for example, that we are on page two.
In that case, the next page computed property is going to go to three, v, f is going to be true.
And this is going to be an object that goes to slash job slash results with a query param of page set
to three.
So in the browser that's going to be page equals three.
That's what view is automatically going to add to the end of the URL, which is the exact same URL and
root as the one above.
The only thing that is different is the query that we are putting together for it to navigate.
And that's important because that is what our component needs in order to figure out which jobs to render.
The final thing that I want to add to both of these writer links, of course, is a bunch of classes
are going to be the exact same.
So for my tail one classes here, I want to add a little bit of margin on the x axis.
So next three to add 12 pixels of margin on the left and 12 pixels on the right.
I want to use text as some to make the text small at 14 pixels.
I want to make it a little bit bold.
So I'm going to do font semi bold that's going to add a font weight of 600.
And then I want to use one of the colors that's available in my tailwind config file and it is brand
blue one.
So in order for it to effect the text color, I'm going to use the text classes and it's going to be
text dash followed by my color.
We called it Brand Blue one.
So that's the one that I want to use right here.
And I'm just going to copy this line and paste that below for the other router link.
And that should do it.
So with that, I'm going to navigate to my browser.
And here we are.
Let me refresh this page.
All right.
And here we are.
We are on page six right here.
Everything is looking fine.
And if I scroll to the bottom.
Perfect.
We are on page six.
We have a previous button and we have a next button.
If I click next notice, we navigate to page seven.
We get the next batch of job results and we still have our previous next buttons.
So I'm going to click it again to go to page eight, our quick params update up here.
We are updating our current page property right here as well.
These recalculate as well.
Still good.
As I move to page nine.
As I move to page ten, notice we no longer have a next button because there is no more pages to go
to.
All right.
Let us check that in the opposite direction.
So I'm going to manually type in page two here to go to my second page of job results.
There's still a previous page and a next page that is good.
But when I go to the previous page, we are now on page one.
There is no more previous page.
So our previous page, a computed property is returning undefined.
Thus our VRF is not rendering and we have no router link for the previous page, only for the next one.
So everything is working in all three scenarios where we have no previous button, where we have no
next button and we have both.
All right, so everything is looking absolutely perfect.
I really like where this is going and we will continue chipping away at this in the very next lesson.